# Journal  
My favorite part of history is storytelling, so when I saw that this week, we were going to use digital methods to tell a compelling story, I got excited. I feel like I didn’t take quite enough notes or push myself enough last week, so I endeavored to do much more this week with the time I had, really push myself. My notes for this week are much more detailed and ended up saying things I normally reserved for my journal, but so I’ll try not to repeat myself too much here. 

I started this week off as I always do, by checking out the reading materials. I found checking out the various historical representations to be very interesting. I had never heard of the DH awards before but enjoyed exploring the list of winners as it gave me a good look at what people in the field are doing. I liked the map of Scotland’s Witches, and took note of how it allowed both a large survey of its data set, but also closer inspection of specific cases upon zooming in. I am a big visual learner, so being able to engage with data this way is much more engrossing for me than a reading. 

### My evolving thoughts on sonification 
One of the materials that perplexed me a bit was sonification. It is an interesting concept and one of the most unique types of data representation that I have seen. However, I did not quite see the use for it at first. Although some of the sonifications, like Reflexivity, sounded interesting, they didn’t help me visualize or experience the data. I could feel the changes in the data from the music’s ebbs and flows, like how the peaks and lulls gave me a sense of how the water levels changed in the “Sounds of the Ottawa,” but over the course of a long song it lost me. I found it hard to visualize the bigger picture or keep track of how the data changed over a longer period.

Later in the week when I tried my own hand at creating a sonification I started to see the values of the medium. I thought about what the medium of music could communicate that other representations could not. I realized that sonification had the potential to tap into one’s emotions. So I decided to pick a depressing dataset and make a sonification of it. I chose to use Canadian WW1 dead since I could make it sound somber and the difference between the low tones and high tones would be emotionally poignant. I think the experiment worked. The organ music conveys the tone I want the listener to feel listening to the data, and the high-pitched tones become especially creepy in context. 

Sonification may not be the best representation to use for doing data analysis, but it does help tell a story. It can be used to add an emotional context to data that raw numbers just don’t have. I think there is sometimes a problem with looking back on history numerically and having a lack of empathy when seeing big numbers, especially casualty numbers. Perhaps this is one of the ways that this data can be represented in a way that really resonates with people and helps convey the message that historians wish to present. 

**Sidenote about podcasts**

I wasn’t able to record a podcast this week, partly due to time constraints and partly because I detest the sound of my recorded voice. I did, however, want to share some quick thoughts on the medium. I listen to a lot of historical podcasts. Whenever I was on public transportation, or cooking, or working out, I could just pop on my favorite history podcast, (Dan Carlin’s Hardcore History,) and learn something. In our fast pace modern world its awesome to have a medium that can engage the mind without requiring commitment from the body. I think many people these days would rather listen to a podcast to learn about history while they do some other task than dedicate blocks of time to reading. Plus, its easy to communicate tone and emotion when you can use your voice instead of pure text. 

### Mapping 

Animated or interactive maps is one of my favorite ways of representing historical narratives. Small confession, I’m a big fan of historical strategy games like Civilization and Total War. These games represent history on a grand scale and allow the player to guide nations and control armies from a birds eye view. Because of this I’ve grown to find animated historical maps very satisfying, especially when borders change. This also led to me finding the YouTube channel [Kings and Generals]( https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCMmaBzfCCwZ2KqaBJjkj0fw/videos) which uses maps, (as well as icons and footage from the Total War games I enjoy so much,) to tell it’s historical narrative of great battles and conflicts. The spatial depictions really help the viewer follow along with how these conflicts progressed and help them get in the mind of the leaders. It is much easier to follow along with and learn from than text alone. 

Many historical narratives are incredibly special, making maps ideal for many types of historical representation besides military history. The map of Scotland’s witches demonstrates how they are not only useful for special awareness, but also volume. It can be quite interesting to see how data is concentrated in certain areas. Allowing one to view a map from a grand scale to notice these patterns, then giving a more detailed view as they zoom in to investigate is a wonderful feature that interactive maps like this can provide. Animating a map, like with the map of the Jamaican slave uprising, adds a temporal element to these representations, a must for telling historical narratives. These maps make it much easier to grasp the where and when, all one needs to do is add voiceover or text to explain the why. 

Long story short, I love interactive maps. This week I made one to represent the locations in the TV show Vikings. I mostly did it for my own benefit, as I was having trouble picturing where everything was happening while I watched the show. Overall I think it was a good use of the interactive story map as it worked for the linear story I was trying to convey. Next time I might want to compare the show with the real historical counterpart and use actual academic sources. 

### A quick note one posters and websites

I enjoyed making a quick website to host my journals on, but got quickly frustrated at the limitations of GHsites. Much like posters, the spatial layout of websites can be really important for communicating the narrative you want to tell. Much like a poster, with a website your reader is most often glance at the information on the page to skim what you are saying or to decided if they want to read more. Although I didn’t get time to turn my paper into a poster, the reading I did to prepare for it indicated that like a website you want your thesis to be obvious on your page and your results be easy to find. Providing a broad view of your topic can help engage readers and encourage them to read more.  

### Final thoughts 

I love storytelling, especially historical storytelling. I have a lot to say about it, as evidenced by the length of this journal entry. Historians are just storytellers, they just back up their stories with facts and evidence. Over the years the way we have told those stories has changed, from cave paintings, to oral histories, to the written word, to today. We happen to be living in a second renaissance, a technological revolution. As the digital world continues to evolve we can find new interactive and immersive ways to tell historical narratives in ways that bring people closer to the past. In 2007 a video game was released called Assassins Creed, in which there is a device that can virtually send someone back in time by simulating the past. While we aren’t there yet, our technology presents us plenty of new ways of presenting historical narratives that can be more engaging than ever before. The tools we explored this week are really just the surface of a vast ocean of possibility, an ocean that I hope I’ll have the chance to explore. 


### My map
<div>
<iframe src="https://uploads.knightlab.com/storymapjs/b31d06882a5f6068b87395ed0717532a/raids-in-historys-vikings/index.html" frameborder="0" width="100%" height="800"></iframe>  
</div>
