<H1> Notes </H1> 
<p> - Listened to all of Reflexivity, it was actually kind of sick. </p> 
<p> - Listened to the weekly podcast. </p> 
<h3> Read </h3>
<p>Checked out some of the material in the read section. I enjoyed the map of Scotland’s witches that won the ‘Best DH Data Visualization’ award. I liked that it became more and more detailed as you zoomed into the map, allowing for both large surveys of an area or close investigations. </p>    
<p>I found the “Songs of the Ottawa” project interesting. I still don’t know if I truly understand the value of sonification for historical data, but I do find it very interesting. Maybe it is more useful for nonvisual learners, or as an interesting and accessible option for the blind. </p> 
<p>Of the 3 songs that compose the “Songs of the Ottawa,” I didn’t find one like I liked the sound of like I did with Reflexivity. They all sounded dissonant and creepy to me. Perhaps that’s just the nature of sonification when dealing with data with many peaks and valleys? </p> 
<p> The Digital Panopticon was interesting. I found the pie charts they used to show trends in inmate tattoos to be effective in showing which subjects were most popular, but ineffective at showing the popularity of the less popular subjects. That kind of visualization doesn’t seem to work well for the details. </p> 
<h3> Posters </H3> 
<p> The tools in this section can come in super handy later. Color Brewer, although confusing at first, will I’m sure come in super hand for me since I suck with colours. I really enjoyed using Type Connection. Not only was is fun to use, but it was also super informative about a subject that I honestly never give much thought. I got a successful match first try, Adobe Garamond Pro & Maple. </p>
<p> I ran into a weird bug while working in Inkscape. I was changing the fonts of my graph to match a pairing I found with TypeConnection but was unable to change the font of the first 4 letters of the y-axis label. I tried deleting them and just re-writing those letters in the correct font, but they just all wrote on top of one another. No idea why this happened, but it ruins my satisfaction of seeing my coordinated fonts pay off (I chose Century & ITC Franklin Gothic to match the time period). See attached image.  </p> 
<p> Inkscape seems powerful, but also a little complicated. It took me a wile to figure out some things that should be easy, like creating a box around my legend. Also, there is something weird about the exports. I don’t know what it is exactly, maybe its just the conversion from vector to rasterized graphics. </p> 
<p> After creating the first poster I’m taking a break from Inkscape for a while to try the other activities. I’m hoping to come back and make a poster of my favorite paper though because I think it might translate well. </p> 
<h3> Static Websites </h3> 
<p> I’ve known about Github Pages for a while now, but I’ve never used it for some reason. I’m glad to finally have an excuse to try it out. </p> 
<p> I created [kieranbing.github.io](https://kieranbing.github.io/) and played around with it a little bit. The static website creator is easy, but there are some features that I wish existed. I really wish I could have multiple pages on the same site, so when I put a new markdown file in the repo it makes a new page. Linking to my journals and not having them appear as a website is kind of disappointing. </p> 
<p> I just saw Dr. Graham and Zoe taking in the discord about imbedding things into our sites, so I’m going to try it. </p> 
<p> I keep trying various methods with varying degrees of success. My repo with all my changes is [HERE]( https://github.com/kieranbing/kieranbing.github.io). </p>
<H3> Mapping </H3> 
<p> I was inspired by the map of Aria Stark’s journey in the description for this section, so I decided to attempt to create my own map from one of my current favorite shows, Vikings. <p> 
<p> I found StoryMap to be a bit confusing at first, but after playing around for a bit I got the hang of it. I found that attaching images to the locations and embedding links into the descriptions made the story easy to follow and visualize. The one problem I had was with the show itself. Vikings doesn’t always specify the exact locations of where everything takes place, which makes it hard to create a geographical map. What I did was estimate locations based on the historical capitals of the kingdoms in the show. I’m happy with how it turned out, I might even want to add more to it as I watch more of the show. My map can be found [HERE]( https://uploads.knightlab.com/storymapjs/b31d06882a5f6068b87395ed0717532a/raids-in-historys-vikings/index.html). </p> 
